q1
i
The paper adresses the lack of portable high level programming model for emeging communications, where inter core communication is managed by software. As transisitor scalijg increase, moving this data across multiple cores takes longer that actual computation. Writing communicaton programs for such devices using c and fortran is difficult because they fail to effectively express parallesim and communication patterns effectively. The core problem is to let programmers write arcticture/ device/ hardware independent code, while achiving a relatively high performance. The paper targets streaming programs like signal processing tasks, which show regular communication and parallesim but still require carful hardware mapping. 
Thus the paper aims to design a compiler that that convert such programs (with high level abstractions) into efficent low level communication aware paralle execuation.This is the 1st step towards a general portable programming models.
ii
The authors have assumed that the data production and consumption rate are known at compile time. They also assume that the programe can be broken down into simple structured stream graphs (pipelines, splitjoins, feedback loops). the target archicture is assumed to allowe direct control over underlying hardware, fine graining blocking, fifo data transfr, etc. The compiler assumes that the communication and computation patterns can be statically analysed without runtime changes. They also assume that the workload associated to a certain programe can be estimated (resonabely) so tasks can be evenly devided. The final assumption is that the streaming application has a ready supply of enough paralle work to take advantage of these systems. 
iii
The authors propose a compiler centric approach based on written in a high level language called Streamlt, where applications are expressed as simple structured stream graphs (pipelines, splitjoins, feedback loops). The approach begins by translating the high level programe into an intermidiate representation and performing graph expansion. The next key step is static scheduling where the compiler decides both initilisation and steady state executation order.
Next the compiler focues on partioning the programe into smaller tasks that can run in paralle. It splits heavy computation task or joins lightweight ones to balance the woarkload across the avaliable processing units. This is followed by the layout phase, trying to place relative tasks close to each to minimize communication delay and help intersyncronosation. The layout provess employes techneques like simulated annealing to explore efficient mapping across the hardware topology. 
Finally the communication scheduler stacially determines the order of data transfer between compunational units ensuring deadlock free execuation on archicture with limited buffering and blocking communication. Once everything is planned, the compiler generates the actual code needed to run the programe on hardware, providing both compuational code as well as communication insctructions talored to the hardware. Thus, this method systemetically converts simple high level absctractions into efficient, complex, paralle, communication aware, execuation, without exposing arcticture or hardware complexities to user. 
iv
The results demonstrate the streamlt compiler can efficiently map high level streaming programe into a communication exposed aricture while maintaning competative performance. Across diffrent benchmarks like FIR,FFT, Radio, Radar, Sort, Filterbank,etc, The compiler was able to achive good provessor utilisation often exceeding 40-80%, indication optimal load balancing and paralle execuation. THe programe generated by the compiler often performed as well as or even better than manually written C programs, running on a single processor. In some cases improvements made by the compiler such as partationing and syncronatiozation removal (unnessary wating) significantly improved throughput. For example Partationing the radar applications yealded 2.3X performance improvement.
Overalle the findings validateded that it is possible to make programming to easier without losing performance. The compiler was sucessfuly able to handle complex tasks like dividing work, placing tasks on hardware and managing communications between them. While there are still some limitations such as onservative scheduling and imperfect workload balancing estamitation, the approach is able to prove that abstraction and efficency are not mutually exclusive. This supports the idea of building more portable and efficient programming models for future processors.
